.TH MARK 1 "2026-04-15" "zsh-mark" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mark \- directory bookmark system for zsh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mark
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mark
is a zsh plugin that lets you save, navigate, and manage directory bookmarks.
Bookmarks are stored as symlinks under
.IR ~/.local/share/zsh-mark/ " (or " $XDG_DATA_HOME/zsh-mark ).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add\fR [\fIname\fR]
Save the current directory as a bookmark.
If
.I name
is omitted, the current directory's basename is used.
.TP
.B go\fR \fIname\fR
Change to the directory associated with the bookmark
.IR name .
.TP
.B ls
List all bookmarks and their target paths.
.TP
.B mv\fR \fIold\fR \fInew\fR
Rename bookmark
.I old
to
.IR new .
Fails if
.I old
does not exist or
.I new
already exists.
.TP
.B rm\fR \fIname\fR
Remove the bookmark
.IR name .
The target directory itself is not affected.
.TP
.B help
Show a brief usage summary.
.SH TAB COMPLETION
The
.BR go ", " rm ", and " mv
subcommands support tab completion (triggered by
.B Tab
or
.BR \(da ).
Candidates are ranked by match quality:
.PP
.RS
.TS
l l.
1st	Exact match
2nd	Query is a substring of the bookmark name
3rd	Query characters appear in order (subsequence)
4th	Everything else
.TE
.RE
.PP
Within each tier, results are further ranked by Levenshtein distance.
Each candidate also shows its target path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/zsh-mark/
Default bookmark storage directory (symlinks).
Override by setting
.B $XDG_DATA_HOME
before sourcing the plugin.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Save the current directory as \(lqwork\(rq:
.B mark add work
.TP
Jump to the \(lqwork\(rq bookmark:
.B mark go work
.TP
List all bookmarks:
.B mark ls
.TP
Rename \(lqwork\(rq to \(lqproject\(rq:
.B mark mv work project
.TP
Remove the \(lqwork\(rq bookmark:
.B mark rm work
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zsh (1),
.BR ln (1),
.BR readlink (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Maintained at
.UR https://github.com/wujue0115/zsh-mark
.UE .
